OSDOCS-9627: adds bug fix relnotes MicroShift 4.15 (#71512)
openshift/openshift-docs: microshift_release_notes/microshift-4-15-release-notes.adoc

* Updates of the RPMs on a non-OSTree system such as {op-system} are also supported.
* Updates from the 4.14 version are supported.

[id="microshift-4-15-version-logs-at-start"]
==== Version logged at start up

> Previously, {microshift-short} did not log its version at start up. The absence of version information made debugging certain scenarios difficult because the update path was unknown. Now, the {microshift-short} version is logged at start up and available to commands such as `journalctl -u microshift | grep "Version"`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19540[*OCPBUGS-19540*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, {microshift-short} did not log its version at start up. The absence of version information made debugging certain scenarios difficult because the update path was unknown. Now, the {microshift-short} version is logged at start up and available with commands such as `journalctl -u microshift | grep "Version"`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19540[*OCPBUGS-19540*])
```

[id="microshift-4-15-olm"]
==== Operator Lifecyle Manager

> With this release, you can use Operator Lifecyle Manager (OLM) to create, apply, and administer add-on Operators. OLM can be used with both connected and disconnected {microshift-short} clusters. See xref:../microshift_running_apps/microshift-operators-olm.adoc#microshift-operators-olm[Using Operator Lifecycle Manager with {microshift-short}].

Author: Good point, no we are not. We have loose links only. I'll remove that sentence.

[id="microshift-4-15-bug-fixes"]
== Bug fixes

[discrete]
[id="microshift-4-15-installation-bug-fixes"]
=== Installation
* Previously, the `microshift-release-info` RPM depended on the `microshift` RPM. With this release, you can download and install the `microshift-release-info` RPM independently for use in image building. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22854[*OCPBUGS-22854*])

* Previously, the Greenboot health check script printed outputs for some checks that were not picked up by `journald`, resulting in missing log entries when running the `journalctl -u greenboot-healthcheck` command. With this release, the production of logs by the Greenboot healthcheck has been fixed so that all outputs are linked to the `systemd` unit, making them easily available to read. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20037[*OCPBUGS-20037*])

> * Previously, the {microshift-short} clean-up script failed if CRI-O services were not present or not running. This prevented {microshift-short} and its dependencies from fully uninstalling. It also prevented the running of the clean-up script on a system with a new install of the `microshift-rpm` that had not started. With this release, the {microshift-short} clean-up script skips the CRI-O steps if the service is not running, reports that status, and continues with clean-up activities. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22936[*OCPBUGS-22936*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the {microshift-short} clean-up script failed if CRI-O services were not present or not running. This prevented {microshift-short} and its dependencies from fully uninstalling. It also prevented the running of the clean-up script on a system with a new install of the `microshift` RPM that had not started. With this release, the {microshift-short} clean-up script skips the CRI-O steps if the service is not running, reports that status, and continues with clean-up activities. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22936[*OCPBUGS-22936*])
```

> * Previously, the {microshift-short} clean-up script failed if CRI-O services were not present or not running. This prevented {microshift-short} and its dependencies from fully uninstalling. It also prevented the running of the clean-up script on a system with a new installation of the `microshift` RPM that had not started. With this release, the {microshift-short} clean-up script skips the CRI-O steps if the service is not running, reports that status, and continues with clean-up activities. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22936[*OCPBUGS-22936*])

Reviewer: Not sure if the 'could not start' suggestion is technically accurate but its up to you! 
```suggestion
* Previously, the {microshift-short} clean-up script failed if CRI-O services were not present or running. This prevented {microshift-short} and its dependencies from fully uninstalling. It also prevented the clean-up script from running on a system with a new installation of the `microshift` RPM that could not start. With this release, the {microshift-short} clean-up script skips the CRI-O steps if the service is not running, reports that status, and continues with clean-up activities. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22936[*OCPBUGS-22936*])
```

> * Previously, the Greenboot health check reported a `RED` status when the Logical Volume Manager Storage (LVMS) plug-in was disabled because no volume groups (VGs) were present. Because volume groups are not required for {microshift-short}, the health check should report `GREEN` without VGs. Now, when LVMS is disabled, the Greenboot health check skips the check for the `openshift-storage` namespace and reports `GREEN` status. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25689[*OCPBUGS-25689*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Greenboot health check reported a `RED` status when the Logical Volume Manager Storage (LVMS) component was disabled because no volume groups (VGs) were present. Because volume groups are not required for {microshift-short}, the health check should report `GREEN` without VGs. Now, when LVMS is disabled, the Greenboot health check skips the check for the `openshift-storage` namespace and reports `GREEN` status. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25689[*OCPBUGS-25689*])
```

> * Previously, the Greenboot health check reported a `RED` status when the Logical Volume Manager Storage (LVMS) component was disabled because no volume groups (VGs) were present. Because volume groups are not required for {microshift-short}, the health check should report `GREEN` without VGs. Now, when LVMS is disabled, the Greenboot health check skips the check for the `openshift-storage` namespace and reports `GREEN` status. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25689[*OCPBUGS-25689*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Greenboot health check reported a `RED` status when the Logical Volume Manager Storage (LVMS) component was disabled because there were no volume groups (VGs) present. Because volume groups are not required for {microshift-short}, the health check should report `GREEN` without VGs. Now, when LVMS is disabled, the Greenboot health check skips the check for the `openshift-storage` namespace and reports `GREEN` status. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25689[*OCPBUGS-25689*])
```

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-updating-bug-fixes"]
//==== Updating

[discrete]
[id="microshift-4-15-networking-bug-fixes"]
==== Networking

> * Previously, when the `advertiseAddress` was set explicitly in the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` to the expected default IP address value, but an IP address was not set for the `br-ex` network bridge on the host, the `ovnkube-master` container in the `ovnkube-master` pod crashed. Whenever `advertiseAddress` is configured with an IP address, any network interfaces must also be configured. With this release, the {microshift-short} service verifies whether `advertiseAddress` is set and whether any interface has the same address set. If no interface has the same IP address set, {microshift-short} prints an error, for example, `Advertise address: %s not present in any interface, advertiseAddress` and fails. This helps ensure the proper configuration before the system starts. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27398[*OCPBUGS-27398*]

Reviewer: Maybe `expected` -> `intended`. up to you though

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-configuring-bug-fixes"]
//==== Configuring

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-storage-bug-fixes"]
//==== Storage

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-running-applications-bug-fixes"]
//==== Running applications

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-backup-and-restore-bug-fixes"]
//==== Backup and restore

[discrete]
[id="microshift-4-15-support-bug-fixes"]
==== Support

> * Previously, `sos` reports created journal logs in separate files, making it difficult to correlate {microshift-short} and the Greenboot health check. Now the {microshift-short} `sos` tool includes a full system journal with an aggregated view in the same log. This means that you can see one log with a detailed report that shows all of the enabled plugins and data from the different components and applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, `sos` reports created journal logs in separate files, making it difficult to correlate {microshift-short} and the Greenboot health check. Now the {microshift-short} `sos` tool includes a full system journal with an aggregated view in the same log. Due to this update, you can see one log with a detailed report that shows all of the enabled plugins and data from the different components and applications.
```

* Previously, the {microshift-short} clean-up script failed if CRI-O services were not present or not running. This prevented {microshift-short} and its dependencies from fully uninstalling. It also prevented the running of the clean-up script on a system with a new install of the `microshift-rpm` that had not started. With this release, the {microshift-short} clean-up script skips the CRI-O steps if the service is not running, reports that status, and continues with clean-up activities. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22936[*OCPBUGS-22936*])

* Previously, the Greenboot health check reported a `RED` status when the Logical Volume Manager Storage (LVMS) plug-in was disabled because no volume groups (VGs) were present. Because volume groups are not required for {microshift-short}, the health check should report `GREEN` without VGs. Now, when LVMS is disabled, the Greenboot health check skips the check for the `openshift-storage` namespace and reports `GREEN` status. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-25689[*OCPBUGS-25689*])

[discrete]
[id="microshift-4-15-updating-bug-fixes"]
==== Updating

> * Previously, when updating from one {microshift-short} version to the next on an `rpm-ostree` image, the Greenboot health check failed to read the version file and the update failed. The system rolled back to a healthy state instead of continuing with the update. Now, {microshift-short} correctly handles the legacy format of the internal version file during updates. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19488[*OCPBUGS-19488*])

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure why it has target version 4.15, but it was fixes before 4.14 release

Author: @pmtk the two bugs are attached to the 4.15.0 Errata. I don't see any other Errata listed in those Jiras, so it doesn't look like those were shipped in a 4.14.z release. I don't see either one in [the async release notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/4.14/html/release_notes/microshift-4-14-release-notes#microshift-4-14-bug-fixes).

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-configuring-bug-fixes"]
//==== Configuring

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-storage-bug-fixes"]
//==== Storage

//[discrete]
//[id="microshift-4-15-running-applications-bug-fixes"]
//==== Running applications

[discrete]
[id="microshift-4-15-backup-and-restore-bug-fixes"]
==== Backup and restore

> * Previously, {microshift-short} created a backup on application restarts without a host restart. This prevented a proper backup from being created on system restarts because {microshift-short} does not update a current-boot backup. Now, {microshift-short} only creates a backup when the system has been restarted. This ensures that a backup is taken every time the system is restarted. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22322[*OCPBUGS-22322*])

Reviewer 3: This should've been fixed in 4.14.Z, is the changelog 4.15.0 against 4.14.0?
